There's a funny story I read that when
you won the Fields Medal, somebody from
the internet wrote you
and asked uh you know what are you going
to do now that you've won this
prestigious award and then you just
quickly very humbly said that you know
this a shiny medal is not going to solve
any of the problems I'm currently
working on. So I'm just I'm going to
keep I'm going to keep working on them.
It just, first of all, it's funny to me
that you would answer an email in that
context. And second of all, it um it
just shows your humility. But anyway, uh
maybe you could speak to the Fields
Medal, but it's another way for me to
ask uh
about Gregoria Pearlman. What do you
think about him famously declining the
Fields Medal and the Millennial Prize,
which came with a $1 million of prize
money? He stated that I'm not interested
in money or fame. the prize is
completely irrelevant for me. If the
proof is correct, then no other
recognition is needed. Yeah. No, he's
he's somewhat of an outlier. Um even
among mathematicians who tend to uh to
have uh somewhat idealistic views. I've
never met him. I think I'd be interested
to meet him one day, but I I never had
the chance. I know people who met him,
but he's always had strong views about
certain things. Um you know, I mean,
it's it's not like he was completely
isolated from the math community. I
mean, he would he would give talks and
write papers and so forth. Um but at
some point he just decided not to engage
with the rest of the community. He was
he was disillusioned or something. Um I
don't know. Um and he decided to to uh
uh to peace out uh and you know collect
mushrooms in St. Petersburg or something
and that's that's fine. You know you can
you can do that. Um I mean that's
another sort of flip side. I mean we are
not a lot of our problems that we solve
you know they some of them do have
practical application and that's that's
great but uh like if you stop thinking
about a problem you know so he's he
hasn't published since in in this field
but that's fine there's many many other
people who've done so as well um yeah so
I guess one thing I didn't realize
initially with the fields medal is that
it it sort of makes you part of the
establishment um you know so you know
most mathematicians there's just career
mathematicians you know you just focus
and publishing the next paper, maybe
getting one to promote one one rank, you
know, and and starting a few projects,
maybe taking some students or something.
Yeah. But then suddenly people want your
opinion on things and uh you have to
think a little bit about, you know,
things that you might just so foolishly
say because you know no one's going to
listen to you. Uh this is more important
now. Is it constraining to you? Are you
able to still have fun and be a rebel
and try crazy stuff and well play with
ideas? I have a lot less free time than
I had previously. Um I mean mostly by
choice. I mean I I I obviously I have
the option to sort of uh decline. So I
decline a lot of things. I I could
decline even more. Um or I could acquire
a reputation for being so unreliable
that people don't even ask anymore. Uh
this is I love the different algorithms
here. This is great. This is it's always
an option. Um but you know um there are
things that like I mean so I mean I I I
don't spend as much time as I do as a
postto you know just just working on one
problem at a time or um fooling around.
I still do that a little bit but yeah as
you advance in your career somehow the
more soft skills so math somehow
frontloads all the technical skills to
the early stages of your career. So um
yeah so it's as a post office publisher
or parish you're you're in you're
incentivized to basically focus on on
proving very technical themsel
um as well as proof the theorems. Um but
then as as you get more senior you have
to start you know mentoring and and and
and giving interviews uh and uh and
trying to shape um direction of the
field both research wise and and you
know uh sometimes you have to uh u you
know do various administrative things
and it's kind of the right social
contract because you you need to to work
in the trenches to see what can help
mathematicians. the other side of the
establishment sort of the the really
positive thing is that um you get to be
a light that's an inspiration to a lot
of young mathematicians or young people
that are just interested in mathematics.
It's like it's just how the human mind
works. This is where I would probably uh
say that I like the fields metal
that it does inspire a lot of young
people somehow. I don't this just how
human brains work. Yeah. At the same
time, I also want to give sort of
respect to somebody like Gregoria
Pearlman who
is critical of awards in his mind. Those
are his principles and any human that's
able for their principles to like do the
thing that most humans would not be able
to do. It's beautiful to see. Some
recognition is is necessarily important.
Uh but yeah, it's it's also important to
not let these things take over your
life. um and like only be concerned
about uh getting the next big award or
whatever. Um, I mean, yeah. So, again,
you see these people try to only solve
like a really big math problems and not
work on on on things that are less uh
sexy if you wish, but but but actually
still interesting and instructive as you
say like the way the human mind works,
it's um we understand things better when
they're attached to humans. Um and also
uh if they're attached to a small number
of humans like this there's the way our
humans um mind is is wired we can
comprehend the relationship between 10
or 20 people but once you get beyond
like 100 people like there there's a
there's a limit I think there's a name
for it um beyond which uh it just
becomes the other um and so we have you
have to simplify the pole master you
know 99.9% of humanity becomes the other
um and uh and often these models are are
incorrect rect and this causes all kinds
of problems.
Um so yeah so to humanize a subject you
know if you identify a small number of
people and say you know these are
representative people of the subject
role models for example um that has some
role um but it can also be um uh yeah
too much of it can be harmful because
it's
I'll be the first to say that my own
career path is not that of a typical
mathematician um I the very accelerated
education I skipped a lot of classes um
I think I was had very fortunate
mentoring opportunities um and I think I
was at the right place at the right
time. Just because someone does doesn't
have my um trajectory, you doesn't mean
that they can't be good mathematicians.
I mean they be mathematician in a very
different style. Uh and we need people
with a different style. Um and you know
even if and sometimes too much focus is
given on the on the person who does the
last step to complete um a project in
mathematics or elsewhere that's that's
really taken you know centuries or
decades with lots and lots of building
lots of previous work. Um but that's a
story that's difficult to tell um if
you're not an expert cuz you know it's
easier to just say one person did this
one thing you know it makes for a much
simpler history. I think on the whole it
um is a hugely positive thing to to talk
about Steve Jobs as a representative of
Apple when I personally know and of
course everybody knows the incredible
design, the incredible engineering
teams, just the individual humans on
those teams. They're not a team. They're
individual humans on a team. And there's
a lot of brilliance there. But it's just
a nice shorthand like a very like pie.
Yeah. Steve Jobs. Yeah. Yeah. As as a
starting point, you know, as a first
approximation that's how you and then
read some biographies and then look into
much deeper first approximation. Yeah,
that's right.